KeyTree Version 1
=================

Description
-----------
Each node (including the root node) holds an encryption key, a signing key, and a trust-chain of public-keys & signatures.
The current limit for node depth is four generations below the root node, this choice was arbirtary, and can be extended in future versions.

Because all keys are derived, you must save the root key (some place safe), and the exact derivation-context, else your data will be lost.
Saving the derived keys is not made possible by default, and not recomended.
The raison d'être of a derived key hierarchy is ephemeral construciton using non-secret derivation-contexts along with a root secret.  

KeyTree version1 defines:
 - A method to create a root node.
 - A method to derive new nodes from an existing node by providing a context/namespace using specified algorithms (HKDF, HMAC-SHA512-256)
 - Methods to encrypt & decrypt data using a specified algoithm (XChaCha20-Poly1305-IETF)
 - A Serialization format for encrypted data, relying on the Cachet and Trust-Chain libraries to provide message authentication.


Algorithms
----------
 - AEAD Encryption using XChaCha20-Poly1305-IETF (256-bit key, 192-bit nonce, 512-bit block, 128-bit MAC) 
 - Key Derivation using HKDF (RFC5869) with HMAC-SHA512-256 (salted with context and node public key)
 - Signatures using Ed25519
 - Hashing using SHA256 (used to produce salf for HKDF)



Encryption
----------
 1. create per-encryption Nonce(IV).
 2. serialize the current node's trust chain, use the bytes as our AAD.
 3. perform XChaCha20-Poly1305-IETF encryption, using current node's derived encryption key, nonce, and AAD.
 4. assemble nonce, AEAD TAg, and encrypted data into the On-Disk Format (described below).
 5. create a new cachet using assembled data from step 4, and the current node's trust chain & signing key.

The is a valid Cachet instance, that can it's self be serialized for writing into a byte-stream.


Decryption
----------
 1. Received a Cachet instance, which asserts an already authenticated trust-chain.
 2. Verify that the Cachet's trustchain matches the current node's trust chain.
 3. serialize the current node's trust chain, use the bytes as our AAD.
 4. parse the On-Disk Format (described below) from the cachet's data field.
 5. perform XChaCha20-Poly1305-IETF decryption, using current node's derived encryption key, parsed nonce, parsed AEAD Tag, and AAD from step 3.


On-Disk Format
--------------
A KeyTree relies on being enclosed within a Cachet's payload which also encodes the KeyTree's Trust-Chain.


Once the Cachet has been parsed, the KeyTree V1 format will define:

| Field    | Bytes | Description                                             |
| -------- | ----- | ------------------------------------------------------- |
| Tag      | 2     | 0x4B, 0x54 ; ASCII for "KT"                             |
| Version  | 2     | Version 1 = x0001                                       | 
| IV       | 24    | XChaCha20-Poly1305-IETF IV/Nonce value.                 |
| AEAD Tag | 16    | XChaCha20-Poly1305-IETF AEAD Tag value.                 |
| Length   | 4     | Unsigned 32-bit integer length of the bytes that follow | 
| Data     | N     | XChaCha20-Poly1305-IETF Encrypted cipher text.          |

